README.md, before:

# Balea Brewhouse
Visit [our webpage](https://baleabrewhouse.netlify.app/).

<image src="./marketing/branding/balea_aquamarine.svg" alt="balea_aquamarine" width="550"/>

Balea Brewery's open business repository – full transparency on brewing ideas, finances, and operations, fostering collaboration and community-driven innovation.


## 1. Idea & Philosophy
Balea Brewery is a Basque-inspired ciderhouse, meadery, and historical brewery focused on reviving lost brewing traditions while maintaining strong cultural storytelling. The core philosophy revolves around:
- **Authenticity**: Crafting Basque-style sagardoa (cider) and mead, along with forgotten medieval fruit wines and ales.
- **Storytelling & Heritage**: Integrating Basque mythology, poetry, and history into branding, product names, and venue experience.
- **Community & Experience**: Establishing a ciderhouse/Biergarten-style venue where customers can immerse themselves in Basque culture through food, events, and workshops.
- **Open Business**: Customers and other breweries can track production, finances and decision-making, learn the recipes, propose ideas, and vote on new flavors. This approach strengthens the community and fosters collaboration and innovation.
- **Sustainability & Efficiency**: Using modern automation and only the best ingredients to maintain quality while reducing manual labor.

## 2. Business Lines
Balea Brewery operates multiple revenue streams:
- **On-Site Consumption & Txotx**: A Biergarten/ciderhouse offering fresh cider, mead, and historic brews.
- **Retail Sales & Farmer's Market**: Bottled products with a Pfand system for take-home consumption.
- **Custom Brewing for Events**: Large-batch custom brews for weddings, corporate events, and festivals.
- **Workshops & Courses**: Teaching cider and mead brewing, historical brewing techniques, and fermentation.
- **Digital Engagement**: A highly interactive website featuring an open-source business & brewing philosophy, allowing customers to access recipes, brewing logs, propose ideas and contribute to experimental batches.
- **Homebrewing Kits & Equipment**: Selling DIY brewing kits and curated ingredients.
- **Subscription Model**: Monthly "Balea Brew Box" featuring exclusive ciders, meads, and historical brews.

## 3. Product Lines & Names
Visit [the webpage](https://baleabrewhouse.netlify.app/) for all the recipes!

**Sagardo (Ciders)**

<image src="./marketing/branding/sagardo_4.jpg" alt="sagardoa" width="350"/>

<!-- - Sidra (“Cider”) – Traditional Basque hard cider.
- Itsaso (“Sea”) – Very light and crisp cider.
- Haize (“Wind”) – Floral and refreshing.
- Egur (“Wood”) – Extra-dry, oak-aged cider.
- Zilar (“Silver”) – Champagne-style bubbly cider. -->


**Ezti (Meads)**

<image src="./marketing/branding/erle.jpg" alt="ezti" width="350"/>

<!-- - Miel (“Honey”) – Classic smooth mead.
- Sagarra (“Apple”) - mead with apple juice.
- Urdin (“Blue”) - Blueberry Melomel.
- Gorri (“Red”) - Cherry Melomel.
- Aranbeltz (“Black Plum”) - Blackberry & Plum Melomel.
- Haritz (“Oak”) – Barrel-aged mead.
- Ilargi (“Moon”) – Elderflower-infused mead.
- Sugaar – Fiery mead with chili heat.
- Eguzki (“Sun”) – Citrus and saffron-infused mead. -->


**Erdi Aroa (Medieval & Lost Historical Brews)**

<image src="./marketing/branding/erdi_aroa_4.png" alt="erdi_aroa" width="350"/>

<!-- - Nero (Latin, “Black”) – Blackberry wine, rich and deep in flavor.
- Acinus (Latin, “Berry”) – A tart, medieval-style cherry wine.
- Myrdöl (Old Norse, “Myrtle”) – A resinous bog myrtle ale, common in Viking and Germanic brewing.
- Birken (Middle High German, “Birch”) – A lightly fermented beer made with birch sap.
- Halig (Old English, “Holy”) – A sacred, mildly bitter mugwort ale used in monasteries.
- Parva (Latin, “Small”) – A mild, daily table beer (~2%) for hydration.
- Spruce (Old English, “Spruce”) – A spruce beer brewed with pine and fir tips.
- Trigo (Old Castilian, “Wheat”) – A rustic, lightly soured oat and barley ale.
- Hippocras (Latin, “Physician”) – A spiced honey wine with cinnamon, ginger, and nutmeg.
- Fuego (Old Castilian, “Fire”) – A saffron and chili-infused heated wine.
- Callamellus (Latin, “Caramel”) – A bochet mead with deep caramelized flavors.
- Feu (Old French, “Fire”) – A berry bochet blended with wild blackberries.
- Honignuss (Middle High German, “Honey Nut”) – A hazelnut-infused bochet mead.
- Mellagranum (Latin, “Honey Grain”) – A classic braggot with malted grains and honey.
- Ölgyod (Old Norse, “Ale of the Gods”) – A smoky, oak-aged braggot brewed for Viking feasts.
- Stark (Middle High German, “Strong”) – A strong, dark braggot aged in oak barrels. -->


**Goxo (Non-alcoholic beverages)**

<image src="./marketing/branding/margarita_4_grey.png" alt="erdi_aroa" width="350"/>

<!-- - Iturri (“Fountain”) – Unfermented apple with light spices.
- Urki (“Birch”) – Birch beer, made with birch sap and wintergreen.
- Izpiliku (“Lavender”) – Light herbal soda with lavender and citrus.
- Haritz Goxo (“Sweet Oak”) – Oak-infused botanical drink with honey.
- Zuhaitza (“Tree”) – Spruce beer, rich in vitamin C, with citrus notes.
- Zingira (“Swamp”) – Classic ginger beer with natural carbonation.
- Erregina (“Queen”) – Spiced molasses & vanilla root beer.
- Makil Goxo (“Sweet Stick”) – A cinnamon-honey herbal infusion.
- Izurde (“Dolphin”) – Butter beer, creamy and lightly spiced with caramel notes.
- Udaberri (“Spring”) – Classic homemade lemonade with honey and mint.
- Mendiur (“Mountain Water”) – Mineral water infused with herbs and fruit.
- Distira (“Spark”) – Citrus-ginger tonic with honey.
- Txiki Ura (“Little Water”) – Elderflower & honey infusion for kids
- Izotz (“Ice”) – Frozen fruit slush with fresh juice. -->

## 4. Approximate Size & Business Growth
**Phase 0**: Research & Testing (years 0-1)
- Production: 12x60 batches/year, 720L total.
- Focus: Refining recipes, branding, and building early demand.

**Phase 1**: Pilot Launch (years 1-2)
- Production: 8x1000+1x10000 batches/year, 18,000L total.
- Focus: Biergarten opening, direct sales, local partnerships.

**Phase 2**: Expansion (years 3-4)
- Production: 5x10000 batches/year, 50,000L total.
- Focus: Full automation & distribution, scaling up events and subscriptions.

**Phase 3**: Full Market (years 4-6)
- Production: 5x4x1000+5x2x10000 batches/year, 120,000L total.
- Focus: Full market saturation.


## 5. Next Steps

1. Add Financial Data & Break-Even Analysis
    - Add the first break-even analysis in .csv or .fods format.
    - Document fixed vs. variable costs per production phase.

2. Prototyping & Testing
    - Add recipes.
    - Brew experimental batches of cider and mead.
    - Experiment with tinctures for unique flavors.

3. Venue Design & Workflow
    - Add physical layout of the brewery, storage, and customer areas.
    - Add workflows & equipment.
    - Interactive map for the website, showing the venue layout and experience

4. Operations
    - Add live operational & distribution workflows.
    - Add live brewing logs (batch performance, ingredient costs).
    - Add revenue & costs tracking.
    - Website for automatic public financial reporting (quarterly and yearly).


5. Branding & Marketing Strategy
    - Finalize product names based on Basque myths and history.
    - Develop marketing visuals, logos, and packaging.
    - Add marketing strategy (social media plan, launch strategy).

6. Baskpedia – Basque Cultural Wiki
    - Create a small encyclopedia (Baskpedia) documenting Basque customs, myths, and history.
    - Use it as a foundation for product lore, venue decoration, and branding.
    - Feature sections on folklore, historical brewing techniques, and cultural elements.


7. Digital Community & Contributions
    - Modify website to allow for usernames and passwords and send emails to the Balea team.
    - Create a simple post and forum system.
    - Define how people can propose new brews or suggest business improvements.
    - Recipe review system.
    - Voting system for the community to influence upcoming releases.
    - Provide a contributor guide for submitting brewing data or financial insights.

8. Expansion strategy:
    - Events, new business lines, marketing, etc.?
    - Contingency planning.

Commit message:

Financials first (#2)
* add business projections

* update margarita

* sagardo

README.md, after:

# Balea Brewhouse
Visit [our webpage](https://baleabrewhouse.netlify.app/).

<image src="./marketing/branding/balea_aquamarine.svg" alt="balea_aquamarine" width="550"/>

Balea Brewery's open business repository – full transparency on brewing ideas, finances, and operations, fostering collaboration and community-driven innovation.


## 1. Idea & Philosophy
Balea Brewery is a Basque-inspired ciderhouse, meadery, and historical brewery focused on reviving lost brewing traditions while maintaining strong cultural storytelling. The core philosophy revolves around:
- **Authenticity**: Crafting Basque-style sagardoa (cider) and mead, along with forgotten medieval fruit wines and ales.
- **Storytelling & Heritage**: Integrating Basque mythology, poetry, and history into branding, product names, and venue experience.
- **Community & Experience**: Establishing a ciderhouse/Biergarten-style venue where customers can immerse themselves in Basque culture through food, events, and workshops.
- **Open Business**: Customers and other breweries can track production, finances and decision-making, learn the recipes, propose ideas, and vote on new flavors. This approach strengthens the community and fosters collaboration and innovation.
- **Sustainability & Efficiency**: Using modern automation and only the best ingredients to maintain quality while reducing manual labor.

## 2. Business Lines
Balea Brewery operates multiple revenue streams:
- **On-Site Consumption & Txotx**: A Biergarten/ciderhouse offering fresh cider, mead, and historic brews.
- **Retail Sales & Farmer's Market**: Bottled products with a Pfand system for take-home consumption.
- **Custom Brewing for Events**: Large-batch custom brews for weddings, corporate events, and festivals.
- **Workshops & Courses**: Teaching cider and mead brewing, historical brewing techniques, and fermentation.
- **Digital Engagement**: A highly interactive website featuring an open-source business & brewing philosophy, allowing customers to access recipes, brewing logs, propose ideas and contribute to experimental batches.
- **Homebrewing Kits & Equipment**: Selling DIY brewing kits and curated ingredients.
- **Subscription Model**: Monthly "Balea Brew Box" featuring exclusive ciders, meads, and historical brews.

## 3. Product Lines & Names
Visit [the webpage](https://baleabrewhouse.netlify.app/) for all the recipes!

**Sagardo (Ciders)**

<image src="./marketing/branding/sagardo_5.png" alt="sagardoa" width="350"/>

<!-- - Sidra (“Cider”) – Traditional Basque hard cider.
- Itsaso (“Sea”) – Very light and crisp cider.
- Haize (“Wind”) – Floral and refreshing.
- Egur (“Wood”) – Extra-dry, oak-aged cider.
- Zilar (“Silver”) – Champagne-style bubbly cider. -->


**Ezti (Meads)**

<image src="./marketing/branding/erle.png" alt="ezti" width="350"/>

<!-- - Miel (“Honey”) – Classic smooth mead.
- Sagarra (“Apple”) - mead with apple juice.
- Urdin (“Blue”) - Blueberry Melomel.
- Gorri (“Red”) - Cherry Melomel.
- Aranbeltz (“Black Plum”) - Blackberry & Plum Melomel.
- Haritz (“Oak”) – Barrel-aged mead.
- Ilargi (“Moon”) – Elderflower-infused mead.
- Sugaar – Fiery mead with chili heat.
- Eguzki (“Sun”) – Citrus and saffron-infused mead. -->


**Erdi Aroa (Medieval & Lost Historical Brews)**

<image src="./marketing/branding/erdi_aroa_4.png" alt="erdi_aroa" width="350"/>

<!-- - Nero (Latin, “Black”) – Blackberry wine, rich and deep in flavor.
- Acinus (Latin, “Berry”) – A tart, medieval-style cherry wine.
- Myrdöl (Old Norse, “Myrtle”) – A resinous bog myrtle ale, common in Viking and Germanic brewing.
- Birken (Middle High German, “Birch”) – A lightly fermented beer made with birch sap.
- Halig (Old English, “Holy”) – A sacred, mildly bitter mugwort ale used in monasteries.
- Parva (Latin, “Small”) – A mild, daily table beer (~2%) for hydration.
- Spruce (Old English, “Spruce”) – A spruce beer brewed with pine and fir tips.
- Trigo (Old Castilian, “Wheat”) – A rustic, lightly soured oat and barley ale.
- Hippocras (Latin, “Physician”) – A spiced honey wine with cinnamon, ginger, and nutmeg.
- Fuego (Old Castilian, “Fire”) – A saffron and chili-infused heated wine.
- Callamellus (Latin, “Caramel”) – A bochet mead with deep caramelized flavors.
- Feu (Old French, “Fire”) – A berry bochet blended with wild blackberries.
- Honignuss (Middle High German, “Honey Nut”) – A hazelnut-infused bochet mead.
- Mellagranum (Latin, “Honey Grain”) – A classic braggot with malted grains and honey.
- Ölgyod (Old Norse, “Ale of the Gods”) – A smoky, oak-aged braggot brewed for Viking feasts.
- Stark (Middle High German, “Strong”) – A strong, dark braggot aged in oak barrels. -->


**Goxo (Non-alcoholic beverages)**

<image src="./marketing/branding/margarita_5.png" alt="erdi_aroa" width="350"/>

<!-- - Iturri (“Fountain”) – Unfermented apple with light spices.
- Urki (“Birch”) – Birch beer, made with birch sap and wintergreen.
- Izpiliku (“Lavender”) – Light herbal soda with lavender and citrus.
- Haritz Goxo (“Sweet Oak”) – Oak-infused botanical drink with honey.
- Zuhaitza (“Tree”) – Spruce beer, rich in vitamin C, with citrus notes.
- Zingira (“Swamp”) – Classic ginger beer with natural carbonation.
- Erregina (“Queen”) – Spiced molasses & vanilla root beer.
- Makil Goxo (“Sweet Stick”) – A cinnamon-honey herbal infusion.
- Izurde (“Dolphin”) – Butter beer, creamy and lightly spiced with caramel notes.
- Udaberri (“Spring”) – Classic homemade lemonade with honey and mint.
- Mendiur (“Mountain Water”) – Mineral water infused with herbs and fruit.
- Distira (“Spark”) – Citrus-ginger tonic with honey.
- Txiki Ura (“Little Water”) – Elderflower & honey infusion for kids
- Izotz (“Ice”) – Frozen fruit slush with fresh juice. -->

## 4. Business Projections
[Business_Projections spreadsheet](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1i1qvkoGsZDia1ozenOaS76aTAC3JZTy28vB54YDQDlE/edit?usp=sharing)

In all phases, an "optimism -2" case is calculated, where the full production is realized but only 40%-50% are sold (Sales Ratio) and an "optimism -1" case, where only 40%-50% of target sales are achieved, but we reacted in time and didn't overproduce (nothing is left unsold).

The pesimistic projections are considered. If in a specific phase demand is higher than projected and we sell everything, the jump to the next phase is accelerated. The very optimistic case that we sell more than 2 whole bars is not handled, because it's outside of the scope of the business idea and definitly enough work and more than enough profit.

**Phase 0**: Research & Testing (years 0-1)
- Production: 12x60 batches/year, 720L total.
- Focus: Refining recipes, brand, and building early demand.

**Phase 1**: Pilot Launch (years 1-2)
- Production: 8x1000+1x10000 batches/year, 18,000L total.
- Focus: Biergarten opening, direct sales, and local partnerships.

**Phase 2**: Expansion (years 3-4)
- Production: 5x10000 batches/year, 50,000L total.
- Focus: Full automation & distribution, events and subscriptions.

**Phase 3**: Full Market (years 4-6)
- Production: 5x4x1000+5x2x10000 batches/year, 120,000L total.
- Focus: Full bar-level consumption. (200 seats * 3-10 barrels/seat/year*160L/barrel =100kL/year)

**Phase 4**: Full Market (years 4-6)
- Production: 12x10000+2x50000 batches/year, 220,000L total.
- Focus: Full local market saturation. (2 whole bars)


## 5. Next Steps

1. Add Financial Data & Break-Even Analysis
    - Add the first break-even analysis in .csv or .fods format.
    - Document fixed vs. variable costs per production phase.

2. Prototyping & Testing
    - Add recipes.
    - Brew experimental batches of cider and mead.
    - Experiment with tinctures for unique flavors.

3. Venue Design & Workflow
    - Add physical layout of the brewery, storage, and customer areas.
    - Add workflows & equipment.
    - Interactive map for the website, showing the venue layout and experience

4. Operations
    - Add live operational & distribution workflows.
    - Add live brewing logs (batch performance, ingredient costs).
    - Add revenue & costs tracking.
    - Website for automatic public financial reporting (quarterly and yearly).

5. Branding & Marketing Strategy
    - Finalize product names based on Basque myths and history.
    - Develop marketing visuals, logos, and packaging.
    - Add marketing strategy (social media plan, launch strategy).

6. Baskpedia – Basque Cultural Wiki
    - Create a small encyclopedia (Baskpedia) documenting Basque customs, myths, and history.
    - Use it as a foundation for product lore, venue decoration, and branding.
    - Feature sections on folklore, historical brewing techniques, and cultural elements.

7. Digital Community & Contributions
    - Modify website to allow for usernames and passwords and send emails to the Balea team.
    - Create a simple post and forum system.
    - Define how people can propose new brews or suggest business improvements.
    - Recipe review system.
    - Voting system for the community to influence upcoming releases.
    - Provide a contributor guide for submitting brewing data or financial insights.

8. Expansion strategy:
    - Events, new business lines, marketing, etc.?
    - Contingency planning.
